.TH smp_affinity 1 "2015-05-02" "Version 2.0" ""

.SH NAME
smp_affinity \- CPU Affinity manager for IRQ and Processes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
\fBsmp_affinity\fR [OPTIONS...]



.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
smp_affinity allows you to manage the CPU bindings of IRQs and Processes.

.SS IRQ Handling in Linux
.P
Communications with the outside world are managed by IRQ (Interrupt. ReQuest)
These interruptions are sent by the hardware cards to the CPU, indicating 
there is some processing to be done with the data received (eg network packet)

.P
On the Linux Kernel, there is 2 parts using them: \fItop-half\fR and \fIbottom-half\fR

.P
\fItop-half\fR is a time critical interruption handler. Most of the time, it
catch the IRQ and add it to a queue for deferred processing by the bottom 
half. The CPUs able to handle the IRQs are defined by a bitmask in
/proc/irq/<IRQ_NUMBER>/smp_affinity

.P
\fIbottom-half\fR is doing the real processing work. It is available to the user
as a kernel process in a "ps" list (processes under brackets).
These are preemptible, cpu-allocatable threads. Their CPU affinity is editable
through 'taskset' tool. 

.SS OPTIONS

\fIlist\fR is a string representing a listing of elements (irqs, pids, cpus...)
.br
On the left the input string, on the right the resulting list for the script:
.br
\fB1,3,7,9\fR      1 3 7 9
.br
\fB2-5\fR          2 3 4 5
.br
\fB1-3,5-8\fR      1 2 3 5 6 7 8
.br
\fB0,2,5-7,15\fR   0 1 5 6 7 15
.br
\fBALL\fR          0 1 2 ... XX   (all available elements)


.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display the help. When added to other options, it will display their current
value (eg changed by other options)

.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIlist\fR
Display only defined elements. This means Processes and IRQ which are able to
run on every CPUs will not be displayed.
When used with -c option, will only display elements runnable on the requested
CPUs

.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIlist\fR
Display only elements bound to the selected CPUs. CPUs are identifed as the 
\fIprocessor\fR elements on \fB/proc/cpuinfo\fR listing.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIlist\fR
Display the CPU affinity for the given IRQs list
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIlist\fR
Display the CPU affinity for the given PIDs list


.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fIlist\fR
Set the selected items to this CPU list
.TP
\fB\-I\fR \fIrange\fR
Set the CPU affinity for the given IRQs list 
.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fIrange\fR
Set the CPU affinity for the given PIDs list


.SH EXAMPLES
.P

.SS Displaying

Display all processes and all IRQs
  \fBsmp_affinity -i ALL -p ALL\fR

Display all processes and all IRQs with a custom affinity
  \fBsmp_affinity -i ALL -p ALL -d

Display all processes and all IRQs able to run on CPUs 0 and 2
  \fBsmp_affinity -i ALL -p ALL -c 0,2 -d

.SS Setting
Bind the IRQs 10 to 20 to CPUs 0 2 4 8
  \fBsmp_affinity -I 10-20 -C 0,2,4,8\fR

Bind the IRQs 45 to 50 and Process 1234 to CPU 4
  \fBsmp_affinity -I 45-50 -P 1234 -C 4

.SS Setting and displaying
Bind the IRQs 45 to 50 and Process 1234 to CPU 4, then display IRQs and 
Processes able to run on CPU 4
  \fBsmp_affinity -I 45-50 -P 1234 -C 4 -i ALL -p ALL -c 4 -d


.SH AUTHOR
.P
Adrien Mahieux <adrien.mahieux@gmail.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
This program is distrubted under the \fBGNU GPLv3\fR


.SH SEE ALSO

\fBtaskset\fR(1), \fBsched_setaffinity\fR(2), \fBsched_getaffinity\fR(2)


